Add docs for HTTP `Permissions-Policy` header `cross-origin-isolated` directive (#36780)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/permissions-policy/cross-origin-isolated/index.md

---
title: "Permissions-Policy: cross-origin-isolated"
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy/cross-origin-isolated
page-type: http-permissions-policy-directive
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Permissions-Policy.cross-origin-isolated
---

{{HTTPSidebar}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document is allowed to be cross-origin isolated.

> Specifically, where a defined policy blocks use of this feature, the {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}} and {{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope.crossOriginIsolated")}} properties will always return `false`, regardless of of the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} headers.

Author: ```suggestion
Specifically, where a defined policy blocks use of this feature, the {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}} and {{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope.crossOriginIsolated")}} properties will always return `false`, regardless of the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} headers.
```

---
title: "Permissions-Policy: cross-origin-isolated"
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy/cross-origin-isolated
page-type: http-permissions-policy-directive
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Permissions-Policy.cross-origin-isolated
---

{{HTTPSidebar}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

> The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document is allowed to be cross-origin isolated.

Reviewer: 1. We should perhaps link for "cross-origin isolated", either to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/crossOriginIsolated or, even better, create a glossary from its second paragraph.
2. I think it is more like "it is still isolated, but we're not granting it the special rights that a page gets if it is cross-origin isolated. I.e. it can still be cross-origin isolated otherwise, with references to cross-origin documents severed. Can you confirm (if not, let me know and I can ask the expert - we just tidied COOP header)

The features are those listed in  https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/crossOriginIsolated

If so, it is something like this:

```suggestion
The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the document is allowed to use the features that are restricted to cross-origin documents.
```

Then see following comment https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36780/files#r1842987696

Author: As I check with specification, the `crossOriginIsolated` property and other features only be meaningful when a inner boolean property "cross-origin isolated capability" is `true` (their algorithm only checks the value of the inner property, not check the two headers and the permissions-policy). So I guess it's something done when init the value of the inner property.

Author: > it is still isolated, but we're not granting it the special rights that a page gets if it is cross-origin isolated. I.e. it can still be cross-origin isolated otherwise, with references to cross-origin documents severed.

I'm not sure if it is correct.

> 1. create a glossary from its second paragraph

Agree, surely it'll be better, but I'm not intended to include it in current PR, for now I'll link to `Window.crossOriginIsolated`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure it is so either. So I'll ask in the other comment. Happy for you to link to the window.crossOriginIsolated.

Reviewer: Yes, that's what I said :-). Pretty much the point of this really the header lets the server specify that even if a resource is cross-origin isolated it isn't treated as such. So this is pretty much as safe as you can get with the APIs.

Author: > when permissions policy disable this feature, features controlled by cross-origin isolated will also not be able to use

Well, I mean that if permissions policy disable this feature, like setting `Permissions-Policy` to `cross-origin-isolated=()`, then:

- `Window.crossOriginIsolated` will return `false``
- `Performance.now()` only return lower precious values
- `Performance.measureUserAgentSpecificMemory()` will not be exposed
- `SharedArrayBuffer` will not be exposed

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a49d1ecd-767c-49c3-95a4-be5e90caf76a)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/17dac4ed-ebfc-4453-9b53-3a1f61578dbc)

Reviewer: Yes, I know. That's effectively what I said - the header disables the special access that is granted to cross-origin isolated APIs.

> The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document can be {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated", "cross-origin isolated", "", 1)}}.

Reviewer: This is really about whether it gets the special benefits of cross origin isolation - i.e. it might be cross-origin isolated otherwise in terms of references to openers etc.

```suggestion
The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document is treated as {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated", "cross-origin isolated", "", 1)}}.
```

> Specifically, where a defined policy blocks use of this feature, the {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}} and {{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope.crossOriginIsolated")}} properties will always return `false`, regardless of the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifically, where a defined policy blocks use of this feature, the {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}} and {{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope.crossOriginIsolated")}} properties will always return `false`, regardless of the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} headers.
The document may technically be cross-origin isolated, but will not be able to use the restricted APIs listed in {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}}, such as {{domxref("Performance/measureUserAgentSpecificMemory()")}}
```

Reviewer: @yoavweiss I was wondering if you could advise on the effect of  the HTTP `Permissions-Policy` header `cross-origin-isolated` directive on `Window.crossOriginIsolated`.

This document says that the header just makes the  `Window.crossOriginIsolated` return false. 

While that may be correct, and seems to match the spec, it seems to me more likely that the header would also so something more significant such as block access to the special APIs granted by cross origin isolation (even if page is in its own BCG and relationships have been severed to openes etc).

Do you happen to know whether it is "just" the property returning `false`, or something else as well?

> Specifically, where a defined policy blocks use of this feature, the {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}} and {{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope.crossOriginIsolated")}} properties will always return `false`, and features restricted by cross-origin isolated can not use, regardless of the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} headers.

Reviewer: This reads as "it cannot use the features" but it is more "does not benefit from reduced restrictions that are granted to cross origin isolated documents".

```suggestion
Specifically, where a defined policy blocks use of this feature, the {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}} and {{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope.crossOriginIsolated")}} properties will always return `false`, and the document will not benefit from reduced restrictions on the use of some APIs that are granted only to cross-origin-isolated documents (see {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}}).
This is true regardless of the {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy")}} headers.
```

---
title: "Permissions-Policy: cross-origin-isolated"
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy/cross-origin-isolated
page-type: http-permissions-policy-directive
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Permissions-Policy.cross-origin-isolated
---

{{HTTPSidebar}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

> The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document is treated as {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated", "cross-origin isolated", "", 1)}}.

Author: ```suggestion
The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document can be treated as {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated", "cross-origin isolated", "", 1)}}.
```

---
title: "Permissions-Policy: cross-origin-isolated"
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Permissions-Policy/cross-origin-isolated
page-type: http-permissions-policy-directive
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Permissions-Policy.cross-origin-isolated
---

{{HTTPSidebar}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

> The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document is allowed to use {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated", "APIs that require cross-origin isolation", "", 1)}}.

Author: ```suggestion
The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document is allowed to use APIs that require {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated", "cross-origin isolation", "", 1)}}.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTTP {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy")}} header `cross-origin-isolated` directive controls whether the current document is allowed to use APIs that require {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated", "cross-origin isolation", "", "nocode")}}.
```

> Specifically, where a defined policy blocks use of this feature, the {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}} and {{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope.crossOriginIsolated")}} properties will always return `false`, and the document will not benefit from reduced restrictions on the use of some APIs that are granted only to cross-origin-isolated documents.

Author: ```suggestion
Specifically, where a defined policy blocks use of this feature, the {{domxref("Window.crossOriginIsolated")}} and {{domxref("WorkerGlobalScope.crossOriginIsolated")}} properties will always return `false`, and the document will not benefit from reduced restrictions on the use of some APIs that are granted only to cross-origin isolated documents.
```
